What is Javascript?
JavaScript is high-level, interpreted and programming language, used to add interactivity to web pages and become the most import part of the web development along with html and css.
Using Javascript we can make application interactive by handling user clicks, make the page with dynamic content, form validations and make animations also.
Javascript can be used in wild range of application development
1. Client Side development: using javascript based frameworks like react, angular we make great user interfaces easily
2. Server Side development: using Nodejs Environment which can run the javascript outside the browser, we can handle server side logic, api's and interact with DB and send the response to FE
3. Desktop Applications: using javascript based framework like ElectronJs, we can make desktop applications like VS Code, Slack etc
4. Mobile Applications: again javascript based framworks like React Native, we can implment both mobile and web applications at the same time
5. Machine Learning: using framework like phaser.js we can run machine learning models in the browser itself
6. IOT applications: using javascript based framework like node red we can implement code for IOT devices

Javascript is a Just-In-Time complier programming language - means code can be converted to high level to machine level at run time only
Javascript is a synchronous, single threaded language - means executes line by line and one at a time
Javascript is a programming language with first class functions where functions are treated as like any other variables, means functions can be assigned as a value to variables and passed as argument to another function and even return the function as result
Example: call back functions, anonymous functions, higher order functions

call back function: is a function which is passed as argument to another function and then executes in that outer function to complete some kind of routine or action
anonymous function: is a function without function name. Ex- arrow functions
higher order function: is a function with takes one or more functions as arguments

In browsers Javascript code is executed by V8 engine and in non browser environment using nodejs which has V8 engine, we can execute the Javascript code

Execution Context: Everything in Javascript is execute in the execution context.
Execution context creates the required environment, variables and it scope chain make the Javascrit engine to execute the code
Execution context is created when a program file start executes. It is global object has the all the globally defined variables and functions and also has windows object when it is executed in brower

